README.md, before:

# react-native-calculator

**Welcome to react-native calculator!**

This is meant to be a project to introduce you to JavaScript (ES6), ReactJS, and React Native. The project is to build a calculator app (simplified version of the native iOS calculator). You'll learn about how to write JavaScript using ES6, ReactJS (with JSX) and how to use React Native to create pseudo-native apps.

**NOTE:** Although the main advantage of using React Native is to build a cross-platform app, the only environment we're going to be targeting is iOS device. Android devices won't be supported.

## Installation

1. Clone this project from GitHub:

    ```bash
    git clone git@github.com:davidvuong/react-native-calculator.git
    cd react-native-calculator
    ```

1. Install NodeJS and `watchman`:

    ```bash
    nvm install 6.10.3
    brew install watchman
    ```

1. Make sure you are on the latest version of Xcode.

1. Download and install all project dependencies:

    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

1. Run the `react-native` development process:

    ```bash
    npm start
    ```

    This essentially starts a process that connects the code you write inside your Mac to the iPhone simulator.

1. Build the iOS application:

    Make sure to open a new terminal tab in the same directory before running the command.

    ```bash
    npm run build
    ```

    This command will open up the `simulator.app` and do a bit of funky magic to convert the code you wrote into an iOS app.

1. Open the `calculator` app inside your simulator

## Further documentation

### Project structure

TODO

### What is JavaScript (ES6)?

JavaScript is a programming language mainly used to build simple websites. However, recently people have developed an obsession with the language and started using it to build heavy web applications. Eventually JavaScript became popular in backend development (NodeJS), ugly mobile development (Cordova/PhoneGap), desktop application development (Electron) and now, not so ugly but still ugly mobile development (React Native).

Over the years, the language has changed and more features have been added (e.g. classes). As of writing this, the version of JavaScript most people use is ES6.

### What is ReactJS?

ReactJS (created by Facebook) is a "view" library (the V in MVC). It's essentially a library (collection of related classes and functions) used to help you structure your code a certain way so that you can efficiently write the frontend part of your application.

You write small isolated "components" then combine them together to create larger "components". For example, I want to build a navigation bar on the top of my website. The navigation has a logo and 4 links (home, careers, about-us, app) that when clicked take me to different parts of the website.

```js
import { Component } from 'react';
import { View } from 'react-native';

class LinkComponent extends Component {
  // stuff here...
}

class LogoComponent extends Component {
  // stuff here...
}

class NavigationComponent extends Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <View>
        <LogoComponent image="./my-logo.jpg" />
        <LinkComponent url="/home">Home</LinkComponent>
        <LinkComponent url="/careers">Careers</LinkComponent>
        <LinkComponent url="/about">About Us</LinkComponent>
        <LinkComponent url="/app">App</LinkComponent>
      </View>
    );
  }
}
```

In the example above, I create 2 components and 1 larger component (the larger uses the 2 smaller components). The `LinkComponent` is a component that accepts a url that when clicked will navigate to the specified url. The `LogoComponent` accepts image and simply displays it. Finally, I have a `NavigationComponent` that uses the 2 smaller components to create a navigation.

This is basically the whole idea behind using ReactJS. You build little components and then use them build larger components. You can then use those larger components to build even larger components. Eventually you'll have one really big component called `<App />` and that is your app.

It's a really nice way to organise your code. What you end up with are lots of components that do a specific thing which you can reuse in other places.

ReactJS was specifically made to help create websites. As more people used ReactJS, this style of building websites became more and more popular. Eventually Facebook adapted this style to allow people to create iOS and Android apps with ReactJS. React Native was what became after all of this.

### What is React Native?

### Generated code from React Native CLI

### Package management via NPM

Commit message:

docs(readme): add development section and update install

README.md, after:

# react-native-calculator

**Welcome to react-native calculator!**

This is meant to be a project to introduce you to JavaScript (ES6), ReactJS, and React Native. The project is to build a calculator app (simplified version of the native iOS calculator). You'll learn about how to write JavaScript using ES6, ReactJS (with JSX) and how to use React Native to create pseudo-native apps.

**NOTE:** Although the main advantage of using React Native is to build a cross-platform app, the only environment we're going to be targeting is iOS. Android devices won't be supported.

## Installation

1. Clone this project from GitHub:

    ```bash
    git clone git@github.com:davidvuong/react-native-calculator.git
    cd react-native-calculator
    ```

1. Install NodeJS and `watchman`:

    ```bash
    nvm install 6.10.3
    brew install watchman
    ```

1. Make sure you are on the latest version of Xcode.

1. Clear your NPM cache because it can cause problems:

    ```bash
    npm cache clean
    ```

1. Download and install all project dependencies:

    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

1. Run the `react-native` development process:

    ```bash
    npm start
    ```

    This essentially starts a process that connects the code you write inside your Mac to the iPhone simulator.

1. Build the iOS application:

    Make sure to open a new terminal tab in the same directory before running the command.

    ```bash
    npm run build
    ```

    This command will open up the `simulator.app` and do a bit of funky magic to convert the code you wrote into an iOS app.

1. Open the `calculator` app inside your simulator

## Development

After you've built the iOS app, you don't need to rebuild it unless you make a change to native code (ObjectiveC for iOS and Java for Android). However, you still need to make sure you start the react-native process with `npm start` and open `simulator.app` to access the calculator app.

## Further documentation

### Project structure

TODO

### What is JavaScript (ES6)?

JavaScript is a programming language mainly used to build simple websites. However, recently people have developed an obsession with the language and started using it to build heavy web applications. Eventually JavaScript became popular in backend development (NodeJS), ugly mobile development (Cordova/PhoneGap), desktop application development (Electron) and now, not so ugly but still ugly mobile development (React Native).

Over the years, the language has changed and more features have been added (e.g. classes). As of writing this, the version of JavaScript most people use is ES6.

### What is ReactJS?

ReactJS (created by Facebook) is a "view" library (the V in MVC). It's essentially a library (collection of related classes and functions) used to help you structure your code a certain way so that you can efficiently write the frontend part of your application.

You write small isolated "components" then combine them together to create larger "components". For example, I want to build a navigation bar on the top of my website. The navigation has a logo and 4 links (home, careers, about-us, app) that when clicked take me to different parts of the website.

```js
import { Component } from 'react';
import { View } from 'react-native';

class LinkComponent extends Component {
  // stuff here...
}

class LogoComponent extends Component {
  // stuff here...
}

class NavigationComponent extends Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <View>
        <LogoComponent image="./my-logo.jpg" />
        <LinkComponent url="/home">Home</LinkComponent>
        <LinkComponent url="/careers">Careers</LinkComponent>
        <LinkComponent url="/about">About Us</LinkComponent>
        <LinkComponent url="/app">App</LinkComponent>
      </View>
    );
  }
}
```

In the example above, I create 2 components and 1 larger component (the larger uses the 2 smaller components). The `LinkComponent` is a component that accepts a url that when clicked will navigate to the specified url. The `LogoComponent` accepts image and simply displays it. Finally, I have a `NavigationComponent` that uses the 2 smaller components to create a navigation.

This is basically the whole idea behind using ReactJS. You build little components and then use them build larger components. You can then use those larger components to build even larger components. Eventually you'll have one really big component called `<App />` and that is your app.

It's a really nice way to organise your code. What you end up with are lots of components that do a specific thing which you can reuse in other places.

ReactJS was specifically made to help create websites. As more people used ReactJS, this style of building websites became more and more popular. Eventually Facebook adapted this style to allow people to create iOS and Android apps with ReactJS. React Native was what became after all of this.

### What is React Native?

### Generated code from React Native CLI

### Package management via NPM
